MARCH 19
ST. JOSEPH, SPOUSE OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN MARY 
Solemnity
From the common of Pastors p.    except 

Grant, we pray, almighty God,
that by Saint Joseph’s intercession
your Church may constantly watch over
the unfolding of the mysteries of human salvation,
whose beginnings you entrusted to his faithful care.
Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son,
who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.


:
HYMN
Joseph, the scriptures love to trace
Th e glories of thy kingly line;
Yet no succesion of thy race,
No long posterity was thine -
Of her the everlasting spouse
Who must a Virgin ever be
Th e Faithful ruler of his house
Who owns no fatherhood in thee.
Th ere were no songs of old renown,
No crowds to greet you when you came,
Two wanderers, to your native town,
Th at lost inheritance to claim;
But hard the hearts, and cold the air,
And mean the lodging where you lay,
And long the exile you must bear
Till upstart Herod’s dying day.
Joseph, the Church of God protect;
Her priests with holy care endow;
Shield of the virgin-souls elect,
Hope of the fatherless, be thou:
And, when our parting spirits cling
To earthly joys that cannot bide,
Make Nazareth in our homes, and bring
Jesus and Mary to our side. Amen.
FIRST VESPERS
READING Col 3: 23-24 Whatever your task, work heartily, as serving
the Lord and not men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive
the inheritance as your reward; you are serving the Lord Christ.

MAGNIFICAT: This is the faithful and prudent steward whom the Lord
has set over his household (alleluia).
VIGILS
PSALMODY
ps 20 ant Lent - ps 91 ant Adv - ps 15 ant Adv - OT 35 - OT 13 - OT 14
LAUDS
PSALMODY
ps 8 ant Adv - ps 62 ant Adv - OT 30 ant Lent - ps 96 ant Chr
READING 2 Sam 7: 28-29 Now, O Lord God, you are God, and your
words are true, and you have promised this good thing to your
servant; now therefore may it please you to bless the house of your
servant, that it may continue for ever before you; for you, O Lord
God, have spoken, and with your blessing shall the house of your
servant be blessed for ever.
BENEDICTUS: Joseph lived in the town of Nazareth to fulfill what
the prophets had foretold of Christ: He will be called a Nazarene
(alleluia).

SEXT
PSALMODY
ps 119 and Chr - ps 120 ant Chr - ps 121 ant Chr
READING Prov 2: 7-8 The Lord stores up sound wisdom for the upright;
he is a shield to those who walk in integrity, guarding the paths of
justice and preserving the way of his saints.
Glory and riches shall be in his house (alleluia).
- And his justice shall endure for ever (alleluia).
VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 126 ant OT - ps 127 ant OT - ps 130 ant Chr - NT 4
READING Col 3, 23-24 Whatever your task, work heartily, as serving
the Lord and not men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive
the inheritance as your reward; you are serving the Lord Christ.
MAGNIFICAT: When Jesus began his ministry, he was about thirty years
old, and was thought to be the son of Joseph (alleluia).


