MARCH 25
THE ANNUNCIATION OF THE LORD
Solemnity
From the Common of the Blessed Virgin Mary p.   , except:

O God, who willed that your Word
should take on the reality of human flesh
in the womb of the Virgin Mary,
grant, we pray,
that we, who confess our Redeemer to be God and man,
may merit to become partakers even in his divine nature.
Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.


HYMN
Behold the dawn before the day,
Behold the Virginal Mother,
The woman promised from the beginning.
She has built her dwelling in the will of the Father.
No fear, no denial,
Troubles the work of grace;
Her heart is filled with untold willingness,
She offers to God the silence in which the Word dwells.
Behold the Virgin Spouse,
Mary, servant and Sovereign,
Who secretly bears the world’s salvation.
The Spirit overshadows her; the blood of Christ redeems her.

FIRST VESPERS
READING 1 Jn 1:1-2 That which was from the beginning, which we
have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have
looked upon and touched with our hands, concerning the word of
life- the life was made manifest, and we saw it, and testify to it, and
proclaim to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was
made manifest to us.
MAGNIFICAT: The Holy Spirit will come upon you, Mary, and the
power of the Most High will overshadow you (alleluia)

VIGILS
PSALMODY
OT 18 - OT 20 ant Chr - OT 32 ant Chr

LAUDS
INVITATORY
The Word was made flesh; come, let us worship him (alleluia).
PSALMODY
OT 45
READING Phil 2:6-7 Though he was in the form of God, Jesus did
not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied
himself, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of
men.
BENEDICTUS: In his great love for us, God sent his Son in the likeness
of our sinful nature (alleluia).
SEXT
PSALMODY
ps 122 ant Adv - ps 123 ant Chr - ps 124 ant Adv
READING 1 Jn 4:10 In this is love, not that we loved God but that he
loved us and sent his Son to be the expiation for our sins.
I am the handmaid of the Lord (alleluia).
- Let it be done to me as you have said (alleluia).

SECOND VESPERS
READING 1 Jn 1:1-2 That which was from the beginning, which we
have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have
looked upon and touched with our hands, concerning the word of
life - the life was made manifest, and we saw it, and testify to it, and
proclaim to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was
made manifest to us.
MAGNIFICAT: The angel Gabriel said to Mary in greeting: Hail, full
of grace, the Lord is with you; blessed are you among women
(alleluia).


