AUGUST 15
THE ASSUMPTION OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN MARY
(Principal Patroness of India - also their Independence Day)
Solemnity
From the Common of the Blessed Virgin Mary p.    except:

Vigil Collect
O God, who, looking on the lowliness of the Blessed Virgin Mary,
raised her to this grace,
that your Only Begotten Son was born of her according to the flesh
and that she was crowned this day with surpassing glory,
grant through her prayers,
that, saved by the mystery of your redemption,
we may merit to be exalted by you on high.
Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son,
who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.

During the Day Collect
Almighty ever-living God,
who assumed the Immaculate Virgin Mary, the Mother of your Son,
body and soul into heavenly glory,
grant, we pray,
that, always attentive to the things that are above,
we may merit to be sharers of her glory.
Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son,
who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.


HYMN
The ark which God has sanctified,
Which he has filled with grace,
Within the temple of the Lord
Has found a resting-place
More Glorious than the seraphim,
This ark of love divine,
Corruption could not blemish her
Whom death could not confine.
God-bearing Mother, Virgin chaste,
Who shines in heaven’s sight;
She wears a royal crown of stars
Who is the door of light.
To Father, Son and Spirit blest
May we give endless praise
With Mary, who is Queen of heaven,
Through everlasting days. Amen.
FIRST VESPERS
READING Rom 8:30 Those whom he predestined he also called; and
those whom he called he also justified; and those whom he justified
he also glorified.
LAUDS
INVITATORY
Come let us worship the King of kings;
on this day his Virgin Mother was taken up to heaven.
PSALMODY
OT 6 ant adv.
READING Is 61:10 I will greatly rejoice in the Lord, my soul will rejoice
in my God; for he has clothed me with the garments of salvation,
he has covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom
decks himself with a garland, and as a bride adorns herself with her
jewels.
BENEDICTUS This daughter of Jerusalem is lovely and beautiful as she
ascends to heaven like the rising sun at daybreak.
SEXT
READING Rev 12:1 A great portent appeared in heaven, a woman
clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her
head a crown of twelve stars.
The holy Mother of God is exalted in glory.
- Above the choirs of angels in the kingdom of heaven.
VESPERS
READING 1 Co 15:22-23 As in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be
made alive. But each in his own order: Christ the first fruits, then
at his coming those who belong to Christ.
MAGNIFICAT Today the Virgin Mary was taken up to heaven;
rejoice, for she reigns with Christ forever.


