AUGUST 6
THE TRANSFIGURATION OF THE LORD
Feast

Collect
O God, who in the glorious Transfiguration
of your Only Begotten Son
confirmed the mysteries of faith by the witness of the Fathers
and wonderfully prefigured our full adoption to sonship,
grant, we pray, to your servants,
that, listening to the voice of your beloved Son,
we may merit to become co-heirs with him.
Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.


HYMN
O raise your eyes on high and see
There stands our sovereign Lord,
His glory is this day revealed,
His Word a two-edged sword.
We glimpse the splendor and power
Of him who conquered death,
The Christ in whom the universe
Knows God’s creating breath.
Of every creed and nation King
In him all strife is stilled;
The Promise made to Abraham
In him has been fulfilled.
The Prophets stand and with great joy
Give witness as they gaze;
The Father with a sign has sealed
Our trust, our hope, our praise.
This glory that today our eyes
Have glimpsed of God’s own Son
Will help us ever sing with love
Of Three who are but One. Amen.

FIRST VESPERS (if this feast occurs on a Sunday)
PSALMODY
ps 109 ant OT - ps 28 ant OT - ps 44 ant OT - NT 12
READING Phil 3:20-21 Our commonwealth is in heaven, and from it we
await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will change our lowly body to
be like his glorious body, by the power which enables him even to subject
all things to himself.

MAGNIFICAT Christ Jesus, you are the splendor of the Father and the
perfect image of his being; you sustain all creation with your powerful
word and cleanse us of all our sins. On this day you were exalted in
glory upon the high mountain.

VIGILS
PSALMODY
ps 23 ant OT - ps 96 - OT 30
LAUDS
INVITATORY
Come, let us worship the King of glory, exalted on high.
PSALMODY
ps 8 ant Lent - ps 92 ant Lent - ps 98 ant Chr - OT 45 - ps 150 ant Lent
READING Rev 21:10,23 In the Spirit an angel carried me away to a
great, high mountain, and showed me the holy city Jerusalem
coming down out of heaven from God. And the city has no need of
sun or moon to shine upon it, for the glory of God is its light, and
its lamp is the Lamb.
BENEDICTUS A voice spoke from the cloud: This is my beloved Son in
whom I am well pleased; listen to him.
SEXT
PSALMODY of the weekday
READING Ex 19:9 The Lord said to Moses, “Lo, I am coming to you in
a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you, and
may also believe you for ever.”
Look to the Lord and be enlightened.
	And never let your faces be ashamed.

SECOND VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 109 ant OT - ps 83 ant Chr - ps 112 ant Chr - NT 7
READING Rom 8:16-17 It is the Spirit himself bearing witness with our
spirit that we are children of God, and if children, then heirs, heirs
of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him
in order that we may also be glorified with him.
MAGNIFICAT When they heard the voice from the cloud, the disciples
fell on their faces, overcome with fear; Jesus came up to them,
touched them and said: Stand up. Do not be afraid.


