OLD TESTAMENT
CANTICLES

Exodus 15:l-4a, 8-13,17-18

1 Let us sing to the Lord who has gloriously triumphed;
horse and rider he has hurled into the sea.

2 The Lord is my strength and might;
he has become my salvation.
This is my God, and I will praise him,
my father's God, and I will exalt him.

3 The Lord is a warrior; the Lord is his name.
4 The chariots of Pharaoh and his army
he has cast into the sea.
8 At the blast of your anger, the waters gathered;
the waves stood up like a wall;
the deeps congealed in the heart of the sea.

9 The foe said, "I will pursue, will overtake;
I will divide the spoil,
my soul shall have its fill of them.
I will bare my sword;
my hand shall destroy them."

10 You blew with your breath, the sea covered them;
they sank like lead in the mighty waters,
11 Who is like you among the gods, O Lord?

Who is like you, majestic in holiness,
awesome in splendor, working wonders?
12 You stretched out your right hand,
the earth swallowed them.

13 In your faithful love you guided the people you redeemed.
In your strength you led them to your holy dwelling.

17 You will bring them in and plant them
upon the mount of your inheritance:
the place which you, O Lord, have made your dwelling,
the holy place, O Lord, that your hands have established.

18 The Lord will reign forever and ever.

Exodus 15:1-6,17-18

1 Let us sing to the Lord who has gloriously triumphed;
horse and rider he has hurled into the sea.

2 The Lord is my strength and might;
he has become my salvation.
This is my God, and I will praise him,
my father's God, and I will exalt him.

3 The Lord is a warrior; the Lord is his name.
4 The chariots of Pharaoh and his army
he has cast into the sea;
the elite of his officers were drowned in the Red Sea.

5 The waters of the flood covered over them;
they went down to the depths like a stone.
6Your right hand, O Lord, majestic in power;
your right hand, O Loro, shatters the enemy.

17 You will bring them in and plant them
upon the mount of your inheritance:
the place which you, O Lord, have made your dwelling,
the holy place, O Lord, that your hands have established.

18 The Lord will reign forever and ever.


Exodus 15:8-10,12-13,17a

8 At the blast of your anger, the waters gathered,'
the waves stood up like a wall;
the deeps congealed in the heart of the sea.

9 The foe said, "I will pursue, will overtake;
I will divide the spoil,
my soul shall have its fill of them.
I will bare my sword;
my hand shall destroy them."

10 You blew with your breath, the sea covered them;
they sank like lead in the mighty waters.
12 You stretched out your right hand,
the earth swallowed them.

13 In your faithful love you guided the people you redeemed.
In your strength you led them to your holy dwelling.
17 You will bring them in and plant them
upon the mount of your inheritance.
Deuteronomy 32:1-12

1 Give ear, O heavens, and I will speak;
O earth, hear the words of my mouth.
2 May my teaching soak in like the rain,
my discourse spread like the dew,
as gentle rain on fresh grass,
as showers on a field.

3 For the name of the Lord I will invoke;
acknowledge the greatness of our God!
4 The Rock, how perfect his deeds,
for all his ways are just;
a faithful God without deceit:
he is just and upright.

5 Yet his children have sinned and are corrupt,
a depraved and perverse generation.
6 Is this how you repay the Lord,
O people, foolish and unwise?
Is not he your Father who created you,
who formed you and established you?

7 Remember the days of old,
recall the years of past generations;
ask your father, and he will inform you,
your elders, and they will tell you:

8 When the Most High allotted the nations,
when he apportioned the children of Adam,
he established the boundaries of the people
by the number of the children of Israel.
9 For the portion of the Lord is his people;
Jacob is the lot of his inheritance.

10 He found him in a region of the desert,
in a barren howling waste.
He enwrapped him and cared for him;
as the apple of his eye, he guarded him.

11 As an eagle that brings out her nestlings,
and hovers over her young,
she spreads out her wings, takes them up,
and bears them aloft on her pinions,
12 so the Lord alone led him forth,
and there was no foreign god beside him.

Deuteronomy 32:18-21

18 You neglected the Rock that begot you,
vou forgot the God who gave you birth.
19 The Lord observed it and was jealous;
he spurned his sons and daughters.

20 And he said, "I will hide my face from them;
I will see how their end will fare.
For Ihey are a rebellious race,
children with no faithfulness in them."

21 "They stirred me to jealousy with what is no-god;
incited me with their idols.
I will arouse their jealousy who are no-people;
I will provoke them with a nation of fools."

Deuteronomy 32:26-28, 30, 35b-36a

26 I said, "I will reduce them to nothing,
and blot out a memory of them from the human race.
27 Yet I feared a goading by the enemy
that their foes might not understand

And declare, 'Our hand has triumphed;
it is not the Lord who accomplished all this.’
28 For they are a nation void of good counsel;
and there is no discernment in them."

30 "How could one man defeat a thousand,
or two put ten thousand to flight
unless their Rock had betrayed them,
that the Lord had given them up?"

35 The day of their ruin is at hand;
and their doom befalls them swiftly.
36 Indeed, the Lord will vindicate his people;
and he will have compassion on his servants.

Deuteronomy 32:35b-36a, 39, 41

35 The day of their ruin is at hand;
and their doom befalls them swiftly.
36 Indeed, the Lord will vindicate his people;
and he will have compassion on his servants.

39 See now that I, yes I, am he;
there is no other god besides me.
I deal death and I impart life;
I have wounded and now I heal.

41 When I have sharpened my gleaming sword
and my hand takes hold for judgment,
I will inflict vengeance on my foes,
and will deal with those who hate me.

1 Samuel 2:1-10

1 My heart exults in the Lord;
my horn is exalted in my God.
My mouth derides my foes,
as I rejoice in your salvation.

2 There is no one as holy as the Lord;
truly, there is no one besides you,
and there is no rock like our God.

3 Speak no more with haughty pride,
nor let arrogance come forth from your mouth.
For the Lord is a God of knowledge,
and by him are actions weighed.

4 The bows of the mighty are broken,
while the feeble gird on strength.
5 The sated hire themselves out for bread,
while the hungry hunger no more:
The barren wife gives birth to seven, 
while the one with many children is desolate.

6 The Lord deals death and brings to life,
casts down to Sheol and raises up.
7 Tire Lord makes poor and makes rich;
he brings down low yet lifts up high.

8 He raises the poor from the dust,
lifts the needy from the ash-heap,
To give them a seat with nobles,
to inherit a throne of glory.

For the pillars of the earth are the Lords;
he has set the world upon them.
9 He guards the steps of his faithful ones,
but the wicked shall be silenced in darkness,
for not by strength is a warrior made mighty.

10 The Lord will shatter his foes,
against them will he thunder in the heavens.
The Lord will judge the ends of the earth,
will endow his king with strength,
and exalt the horn of his anointed.

1 Chronicles 29:10-13

10 Blessed are you, O Lord,
God of Israel, our father,
from eternity unto eternity.

11 Yours, O Lord, is greatness and power,
splendor, victory and majesty;
for all is yours in heaven and on earth.
Yours, O Lord, is the kingdom,
you are exalted as head over all.

12 Riches and honor are from you,
and you have dominion over all.
In your hand is power and might;
your hand gives greatness and strength to all.

13 And now, our God, we give you thanks,
and we praise your splendid name.

Tobit 13:1b-8

1b Blessed be God, who lives forever,
and blessed be his kingdom,
2 for he punishes but also shows mercy.

He leads down to the depths of Hades,
and brings up from ruin by his majesty;
and no one can escape his hand.

3 Children of Israel, confess him before the nations,
for he has scattered you among them,
4 and even there has shown you his greatness.

Extol him, then, before every living being,
for he is our Lord and our Father,
he is our God forever.

5 He will punish you for your iniquities,
but on all of you he will have mercy,
he will gather you from all the nations •
wherever you have been scattered.

6 When you turn back to him
with all your heart and all your soul
to do what is true before him,
then he will turn back to you
and no longer hide his face from you.

Now, then, see what he has done for you,
and with full voice, give him your thanks.
Bless the Lord of righteousness,
and exalt the King of the ages.

In the land of my exile I give him thanks,
and show his power and grandeur to a nation of sinners.
Turn back, you sinners, and do what is right before him.
Who knows, he may favor you and show you mercy?

7 To the King of heaven I speak joyfully,
my soul rejoices all the days of my life.

8 Bless the Lord, all you chosen ones;
and all, give praise to his grandeur.
Take up days of rejoicing and confess him.

Tobit 13:lb-ll, 13-14ab, 15-18

1b Blessed be God, who lives forever,
and blessed be his kingdom,
2 for he punishes but also shows mercy.

He leads down to the depths of Hades,
and brings up from ruin by his majesty;
and no one can escape his hand.

3 Children of Israel, confess him before the nations,
for he has scattered you among them,
4 and even there has shown you his greatness.

Extol him, then, before every living being,
for he is our Lord and our Father,
he is our God forever.

5 He will punish you for your iniquities,
but on all of you he will have mercy,
he will gather you from all the nations
wherever you have been scattered.

6 When you turn back to him
with all your heart and all your soul
to do what is true before him,
then he will turn back to you
and no longer hide his face from you.

Now, then, see what he has done for you,
and with full voice, give him your thanks.
Bless the Lord of righteousness,
and exalt the King of the ages.

In the land of my exile I give him thanks,
and show his power and grandeur to a nation of sinners.
Turn back, you sinners, and do what is right before him.
Who knows, he may favor you and sin you mercy?

7 To the King of heaven I speak joyfully,
my soul rejoices all the days of my life.
8 bless the Lord, all yon chosen ones;
and all, give praise to his grandeur.
Take up days of rejoicing and confess him.

9 O Jerusalem, holy city,
for the works of your hands he will punish you.
10 Give thanks to the Lord with good works,
and bless the King of the ages
so that his tent may be rebuilt in you with joy.

And may he gladden all captives within you;
and may he love all the anguished within you
for all generations, forever.

11 A brilliant light will shine to all the ends of the earth;
many nations will come to you from afar,
and from all the earth's ends to your holy name,
bearing their gifts in their hands for the King of heaven.

Generation after generation
will give joyful praise in you,
and the name of the chosen one will be forever.

13 Then you will rejoice and exult
over the children of the righteous,
tor thev will all be gathered in
and will bless the Lord of the ages.
14 Blessed are those who love you,
and blessed those who rejoice in your fruitful peace.

15 O my soul, bless the Lord, the great King,
16 for Jerusalem shall be built as a city,
his house from age to age.
How happy will I be if a remnant of my offspring
lives on to see your glory,
and professes the King of heaven.

The gates of Jerusalem will be made
of sapphire and emerald,
and all your walls of precious stones.
The towers of Jerusalem will be made with gold
and their bulwarks with pure gold.

17 The streets of Jerusalem will be paved .
with ruby and with stones of Ophir.
18 The very gates of Jerusalem will resound
with hymns of gladness,
and all her houses will shout, Alleluia.

Blessed be the God of Israel,
and those blessed will praise the holy name,
from eternity and forever.

Tobit 13:8-11, 13-14ab, 15-16ab

8 Bless the Lord, all you chosen ones;
and all, give praise to his grandeur.
Take up days of rejoicing and confess him.

9 O Jerusalem, holy city,
for the works of your hands he will punish you.

10 Give thanks to the Lord with good works,
and bless the King of the ages
so that his tent may be rebuilt in you with joy.

And may he gladden all captives within you;
and may he love all the anguished within you
for all generations, forever.

11 A brilliant light will shine to all the ends of the earth;
many nations will come to you from afar,
and from all the earth's ends to your holy name,
bearing their gifts in their hands for the King of heaven.
Generation after generation
will give joyful praise in you,
and the name of the chosen one will be forever.

13 Then you will rejoice and exult
over the children of the righteous,
for they will all be gathered in
and will bless the Lord of the ages.

14 Blessed are those who love you,
and blessed those who rejoice in your fruitful peace.

15 O my soul, bless the Lord, the great King,
16 for Jerusalem shall be built as a city,
his house from age to age.

Judith 13:18bcde, 19

18b Blessed are you, O daughter, by God Most High;
you are above all women on earth,
and blessed be the Lord God
who has created the heavens and the earth.

19 For your deed of hope will never depart
from the hearts of those
who always remember the power of God.

Judith 16:1-2, 13

1 Begin a song to my God with tambourines;
sing to my Lord with cymbals.
Improvise a new song for him;
extol and invoke his name.

2 You are God who suppress wars,
who pitch camp in the midst of your people
to free me from the hands of my pursuers.

13 I will sing a new song to my God:
O Lord, you are great and glorious,
marvelous in strength and invincible.

14 May all your creatures serve you,
for you spoke, and they were made.
You sent forth your Spirit, and they were created;
and no one can resist your voice.

15 For the mountains shall be shaken to their bases like the waters;
rocks shall melt like wax before your face.
Yet to those who fear you, you will still show mercy.

Proverbs 9:1-6,10-12

1 Wisdom has built her house;
she has hewn out her seven pillars.
2 She has prepared the banquet,
mixed the wine,
and has spread the table.

3 She has sent out her maidens
to announce from the heights:
4 "Let those without learning enter here";

To those without sense, she says,
5 "Come, eat my food
and drink the wine I have mixed;
6 give up the ways of foolishness and live;
walk in the ways of understanding."

10 Fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom,
knowledge of the Holy One is insight.
11 It is by me that your days will increase,
and years of life will be added to you.
12If you are wise, then wisdom will be yours;
if you scoff, then you alone shall bear it.

Song of Songs 2:10bc and 14ef;
4:8a and 9a, 11cd and 12,15

2:10 Arise, my beloved,
my dove, my fair one, and come.
14 For your voice is sweet,
and comely is your face.

4:8 Come from Lebanon, my bride,
9 you have ravished my heart, my sister, my bride.

11 The fragrance of your clothing
is like the fragrance of Lebanon.
12 A garden enclosed is my sister, my bride,
a garden enclosed, a fountain preserved.

15 You are a garden fountain,
a well of living water,
a stream which flows from Lebanon.

Wisdom 3:1-6

1 The souls of the righteous are in the hands of God;
and no anguish will ever touch them.

2 In the eyes of the foolish, they seem to have died;
and their departure was deemed a disaster,
3 and their going forth from us a destruction,
but they are at peace.

4 For if before others, indeed, they were punished,
their hope is full of immortality.
5 And having been chastened a little,
they will be greatly blessed,
for God tested them, and found them worthy of himself.

6 For like gold in the furnace he tested them,
and accepted them as a whole burnt offering.

Wisdom 3:7-9

7 In the time of their visitation, they will shine forth;
and they will dart about like sparks through stubble.
8 They will judge nations and rule over peoples,
and the Lord will reign over them for all time.

9 Those who trust in him will understand truth;
and the faithful will abide with him in love.
For grace and mercy remain with his holy ones,
and he watches over his elect.

Wisdom 9:1-6, 9-11

1 O God of my ancestors, Lord of mercy,
who by your word have made all things,
2 and in your wisdom have established man
to be master of the creatures you have made,

3 To govern the world in holiness and righteousness,
and to pass judgment with an upright heart,
4 grant me wisdom, the consort of your throne,
and reject me not from your children.

5 For I am your servant, the son ot your handmaid,
a man who is weak and short-lived,
young in understanding of judgment and law;
6 though one be perfect among the children of Adam,
yet if wisdom from you be not with him,
he shall be regarded as nothing.

9 With you is wisdom who knows your works,
who was present when you made the world,
and comprehends what is pleasing in your eyes,
and what is right in accord with your commands.

10 O send her forth from the holy heavens;
from the throne of your glory dispatch her,
that she may be with me and labor at my side,
and I may know what is pleasing to you.

11 For she knows and understands all things,
and she will prudently guide me in my actions,
and will keep guard over me with her glory.

Wisdom 10:17-21

17 Wisdom gave to holy ones
a reward for their labors;
along a marvelous way she guided them.
She became a shelter for them by day,
and a flame of stars by night.

18 Across the Red Sea she carried them,
and brought them through the watery depths,
19 yet their foes she drowned in the sea,
and then cast them up from the abyss.

20 Therefore the righteous despoiled the ungodly,
and they extolled your holy name, O Lord,
and praised your conquering hand with one voice;
21 for wisdom opened mouths that were mute
and made the tongues of infants eloquent.

Wisdom 16:20-21, 26; 17:1a

16:20 You nourished your people with the food of angels
and furnished them with bread from heaven,
ready to hand, untoiled-for,
endowed with all delights
and conforming to every taste.

21 For your provision manifested your sweetness toward your children,
and serving the desire of the one who received it
transformed itself to each one's taste.

26 This was so that your children,
whom you loved, O Lord,
might learn that it is not the production of crops
that nourishes your people,
but your word is what sustains those who trust in you.

17:1 For great indeed are your judgments,
so difficult to explain.

Sirach 14:20-27

20 Blessed the man who waits upon wisdom,
and ponders her justice,
and reflects upon the ways of God.

21 He reflects on her ways in his heart,
and understands her secrets,
22 who pursues after her like a hunter,
and remains constant in her ways.

23 He gazes in through her windows,
and listens at her door.
24 He lodges near her house,
and fastens his tent peg by her walls;
25 he will pitch his tent by her,
and thus rest in a good place forever.

26 He will set his children beneath her shield
below her branches he will abide.
27 He will be sheltered from the heat by her,
and he will rest in her abundance.

Sirach 14:20; 15:3-5a, 6b

14:20 Blessed the man who waits upon wisdom,
and ponders her justice,
and reflects upon the ways of God.

15:3 She will feed him with the bread of understanding,
with the water of learning to drink,

4 He will rest on her and not fall,
trust in her and not be shamed;

5a She will exalt him above his companions,
6b and he will inherit an everlasting name.

Sirach 31:8-11

8 Blessed the rich man found without blame,
who has not gone after gold,
who has not hoped in money or treasures.

9 Who is he that we may praise him?
For he of all his people has done wonders.
10 Who is he that has been tested and come off perfect?
This remains his eternal glory:

He could have sinned but did not,
could have done evil, but would not,
11 so that his good works are secure in the Lord,
and the assembly of all the holy ones recounts his deeds.

Sirach 36:1-7,13-19

1 Have mercy on us, God of all,
look upon us,
and show us the light of your mercies;

2 And send your fear upon the nations
who have not sought you out,
that they may know there is no God but you,
and may recount your wondrous deeds.

3 Raise your hand over the foreign nations,
that they may see your power.
4 As you have used us to show them your holiness,
so now use them to show us your greatness.

5 Thus will they know as we have known
that there is no God but you, O Lord.
6 Grant new signs and accomplish further wonders,
7 make glorious your hand, confirm your right arm.

13 Gather together all the tribes of Jacob,
16 and restore to them their heritage
as it was from the beginning.

17 Have mercy on your people called by your name:
Israel, whom you likened to your first-bom.
18 Take pity on your holy city:
Jerusalem, the place where you rest.
19 Fill Zion with your majesty,
and your temple with your glory.

Sirach 36:17-22

17 Have mercy on your people called by your name:
Israel, whom you likened to your first-born.
18 Take pity on your holy city:
Jerusalem, the place where you rest.
19 Fill Zion with your majesty,
and your temple with your glory.

20 Bear witness to your deeds of old;
fulfill the prophecy spoken in your name.
21 Reward those who wait for you;
and let your prophets be confirmed as true.

22 Hear, O Lord, the prayer of your servants,
who are ever gracious toward your people;
and guide us on the path of justice.
Then all on earth will know
that you are the eternal God.

Sirach 39:13-16

13 Listen to me, faithful children,
and blossom like a rose,
growing by a stream of water.
14 As incense, send out a sweet fragrance,
break open with blossoms like a lily.

Sing out a song of praise,
bless the Lord for all his works.

15 Declare the majesty of his name,
and give thanks to him with praise,
with songs of your lips and the lyre,
sing out with joy as you announce:
16 "All of the works of the Lord are very good."

Isaiah 2:2-5

2 It will happen in the latter days
that the mountain of the house of the Lord
will be established as the highest mountain
and will be raised above the hills.

Then all the nations shall stream toward it;
3 and many peoples shall come and say,
"Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord,
to the house of the God of Jacob,
that he may instruct us in his ways,
and we may walk in his paths."

For out of Zion shall go forth instruction,
and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.
4 And he will judge between nations,
and decide terms for many peoples.

And they shall beat their swords into plowshares,
and their spears into pruning hooks.
Nation shall not lift up sword against nation,
and they shall never again learn war.

5 O house of Jacob, come,
let us walk in the light of the Lord.

Isaiah 9:1-6

1 The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light;
those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness,
upon them a light has shone forth.

2 You have made great the nation;
you have increased the joy.
They rejoice before you
as with joy at the harvest,
as people revel when dividing the spoils.

3 For the yoke of his burden,
and the pole across his shoulders,
the rod of his oppressor, you have shattered
as on the day of Midian.

4 For every boot of a trampling warrior,
and every garment rolled in blood
will be burned as fuel for fire.

5 For to us a child is born,
a son is given to us;
authority will be upon his shoulders;
and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor,
Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.

6 His authority will continue to increase
and there shall be everlasting peace
upon the throne of David and his kingdom.
And he will uphold it with justice and right
from this time forth and forever.
The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this.

Isaiah 12:1-6

1 I give thanks to you, O Lord!
For though you were angry with me,
your anger turned back, and you consoled me.

2 Behold, God is my salvation!
I will trust and will not be afraid,
for the Lord is my strength and my praise,
and he has been my salvation.

3 With joy will you draw water
from the springs of salvation.

4 And you will say on that day:
Give thanks to the Lord, invoke his name;
make known among the peoples his deeds;
proclaim that his name is exalted. 5

5 Sing to the Lord for he has wrought wonders;
let this be known through all the earth.
6 Shout aloud and sing praise, you who dwell in Zion,
for great in your midst is the Holy One of Israel.

Isaiah 26:1-4, 7-9, 12

1 Ours is a city strong in salvation;
he has set up walls and bulwarks.
2 Open the gates so that a nation that is righteous,
one that keeps faith, may enter.

3 You guard the steadfast mind in peace,
in peace, for its trust is in you.
4 Trust in the Lord forever and ever;
an everlasting Rock is the Lord.

7 The path of the righteous is level;
you make smooth the course of the righteous.one.
8 Yes, in the path of your judgments,
we wait for you, O Lord;
your name and your renown
are the desire of the soul.

9 My soul yearns for you in the night;
my spirit within me seeks you at dawn.
When your judgments are wrought on earth,
the world's inhabitants learn righteousness.

12 O Lord, you order peace for us;
for you accomplished all our works for us.

Isaiah 33:2-10

1 O Lord, have mercy on us,
for you we have waited;
be our arm in the morning,
and our salvation in time of distress.

3 At the sound of tumult, peoples fled;
at your rising, nations scattered.

4 Your prey shall be gathered as the caterpillar gathers,
as locusts leap, so he leaps upon it.

5 The Lord is exalted, for he dwells on high;
he will fill Zion with justice and right.
6 He will be the stability for your times;
wisdom and knowledge are the riches of salvation;
her treasure is the fear of the Lord.

7 Behold, the valiant lament in the streets;
the messengers of peace weep bitterly.
8 Highways are desolate, travelers have quit the path;
he has broken the covenant, despised the witnesses;
there is no regard for anyone.

9 The land is mourning, pining away;
Lebanon withers with shame,
Sharon has become like a wasteland.
Bashan and Carmel are stripped bare.

10 "Now will I arise," says the Lord,
"now will I be exalted, now be lifted up."

Isaiah 33:13-16

13 Hear what I have done, O you who are far off;
and you who are near, acknowledge my might.

14 Sinners in Zion are shaking with fear;
trembling seizes the godless.
"Who of us can dwell with the devouring fire;
who of us can dwell with everlasting flames?"

15 The one who walks rightly and speaks honestly,
who spurns what is gained by oppression,
who shakes his hand free lest it accept a bribe,
who closes his ears not to listen to bloodshed,
who shuts his eyes not to gaze on evil.

16 Such a one shall dwell upon the heights,
whose refuge will be a rocky stronghold,
whose bread will be given, and whose water assured.

Isaiah 38:10-12d, 16

10 I said: In the midst of my days I must depart.
I am consigned to the gates of Sheol
for the rest of my years.

11 I said, I shall not see
the Lord in the land of the living;
no more shall I look on the human race,
on those who inhabit the world.

12 My dwelling is pulled up and removed from me
I like a shepherd's tent;
! he has rolled up my life like a weaver,
who severs me from the last thread.

16 O Lord, in you my heart hopes,
my spirit lives;
heal me and give me life.

Isaiah 38:10-14,17-20

10 I said: In the midst of my days I must depart.
I am consigned to the gates of Sheol
for the rest of my years.

11 I said, I shall not see
the Lord in the land of the living;
no more shall I look on the human race,
on those who inhabit the world.

12 My dwelling is pulled up and removed from me
like a shepherd's tent;
he has rolled up my life like a weaver,
who severs me from the last thread.
From dawn to dusk you bring me to an end.

13 I cry for help until morning.
Like a lion he crushes all my bones.
From dawn to dusk you bring me to an end.

14 Like a young swallow I murmur;
like a dove I moan.
My eyes grow weary gazing heavenward.
17 You saved my soul from the pit of destruction,
for you have cast behind your back all my sins.

18 For Sheol cannot give you thanks
nor can death give you praise;
nor can those who descend into the pit
hope any longer in your faithfulness.

19 The living, the living give you thanks
as I do this day.
Parents make known to their children your faithfulness.

20 The Lord is here to save me,
and we will sing to the sound of instruments,
all the days of our lives
in the house of the Lord.

Isaiah 40:1-8

1 Comfort, give comfort to my people,
says your God.

2 Speak to the heart of Jerusalem,
and cry out to her
that her slavery is ended,
her guilt is taken away;
indeed, she has received from the hand of the Lord,
double for all her sins.

3 A voice cries out:
In the desert prepare the way of the Lord!
Make straight in the desert a highway for our God!

4 Every valley shall be raised up,
every mountain and hill be made low;
the rugged ground shall become a level plain,
the rough places become a valley.

5 Then the glory of the Lord shall be revealed,
and together all flesh shall see it;
for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. 

6 A voice rings out, "Cry aloud!"
and I said, "What shall I cry aloud?"
All flesh is grass and all its beauty
is like the flower of the field.

7 The grass withers, the flower fades
when the breath of the Lord blows on them;
indeed, the people are grass.

8 The grass withers, the flower fades,
but the word of our God will stand forever.

Isaiah 40:10-17

10 Behold, the Lord God comes with might,
and his arm is ruling for him;
behold, his reward is with him,
and his recompense before him.

11 Like a shepherd he feeds his flock;
he gathers the lambs in his arms,
and in his bosom he carries them;
he gently leads the ewes.

12 Who can measure out the waters with his hand,
and mark out the heavens with a span,
and gauge the earth's dust with a measure,
and weigh the mountains with scales,
and the hills with a balance?

13 Who has directed the Spirit of the Lord,
or who has taught him as his counselor?
14 Whom did he consult to gain understanding,
and who taught him in the path of judgment,
and who could teach him knowledge,
and make known to him the way of understanding?

15 Behold, the nations are but a drop from a bucket,
and are reckoned as dust on the scales;
behold, he lifts up the islands like fine powder.
16 There is not enough in Lebanon to bum,
nor its beasts enough for whole burnt offerings.

17 All the nations are as nothing to him;
as emptiness and nothing he accounts them.


Isaiah 42:10-16

10 Sing to the Lord a new song,
his praise from the ends of the earth—
you who go down into the sea, and its fullness,
the islands and those who dwell there.

11 Let the desert and its cities exult,
the villages where Kedar dwells.
Let the inhabitants of Sela shout for joy;
let them sing from the tops of the mountains.
12 Let them give glory to the Lord,
and announce his praise in the islands.

13 The Lord strides forth like a champion,
like a warrior he rouses his rage;
he raises his voice and shouts aloud,
he shows his might against his foes.

14 I have always kept silent,
kept quiet, restraining myself.
Now I cry out like a woman in labor;
I both gasp and pant.

15 Mountains and lulls will I lay waste;
and all their plants will I wither.
And rivers will I turn into islands,
and cause the marshes to dry up.

16 I will lead the blind by a road they do not know;
and on paths they do not know I will lead them.
I will turn darkness into light before them,
and rough places into level ground.

Isaiah 45:15-25

15 Truly you are a God who hide yourself,
O God of Israel, the Savior.
16 All of them are shamed and disgraced;
the makers of idols leave together in disgrace.

17 Israel is saved by the Lord with everlasting salvation.
You shall not be put to shame or disgrace for all eternity.

18 For thus says the Lord, Creator of the heavens,
God himself, who formed the earth and made it firm;
not as chaos did he create it;
but formed it to be lived in:
I am the Lord, and there is no other.

19 I did not speak in secret,
in a land of darkness;
I did not say to the descendants of Jacob,
"Seek me in vain."
I the Lord speak what is just,
I declare what is upright.

20 Gather together, and come;
draw near together, you survivors of the nations;
they have no knowledge, who lift up wooden idols;
and pray to a god who cannot save.

21 Speak up and present your case;
let them take counsel together.
Who has revealed this from long ago,
foretold it of old?

Was it not I, the Lord?
There is no other god but me,
a righteous God and a Savior —
There is none except me.

22 Turn to me and be saved,
all the ends of the earth.
For I am God and there is no other.

23 By my own self I swear it,
from my mouth has righteousness gone forth,
a word that shall not return.
For to me every knee shall bow,
and every tongue shall swear an oath.

24 They will say to me, "Only in the Lord
are righteousness and strength;
all who were angry against him
shall come to him and be ashamed.
25 In the Lord all the offspring of Israel
shall be justified and exult."

Isaiah 49:7-13

7 Thus says the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel
who is his Holy One,
to the one who is despised,
the one abhorred by the nations,
the slave of rulers:

Kings shall see and arise;
nobles shall prostrate themselves
because of the Lord, who is faithful,
the Holy One of Israel, who chose you.

8 Thus says the Lord,
In a time of favor, I have answered you,
on a day of salvation, I have helped you.

I have kept you and formed you
as a covenant of the people,
to restore the land,
to inherit the ruined heritages,

9 Saying to prisoners, "Come forth,"
and to those who are in darkness, "Show yourselves."
They will pasture along the ways,
every bare height shall be their pasture.

10 They shall neither hunger nor thirst,
hot wind or sun shall not smite them;
for he who pities them shall lead them
and guide them to springs of water.

11 And I will make all my mountains a road,
and my highways will be raised up.

12 Behold, these shall come from afar,
and behold, these from the north and the west,
and these from the land of Syene.

13 Sing for joy, O heavens, and exult, O earth!
Break forth into song, O mountains!
For the Lord has comforted his people,
and shows pity to his afflicted ones.

Isaiah 61:6-9

6 You will be called priests of the Lord,
spoken of as ministers of our God;
you will delight in the wealth of nations
and you will glory in their riches.

7 Instead of your shame, a double portion will be theirs,
and instead of disgrace, rejoicing will be theirs.
Therefore in your land, they will possess a double portion;
everlasting joy shall be theirs.

8 For I, I the Lord, love justice,
I hate theft and a dishonest burnt offering;
I will faithfully give them their re "A,
and I will make an eternal covenant with them.

9 And their descendants shall be known among the nations,
and their offspring amidst the peoples.
All who see them shall acknowledge them
as the generation whom the Lord has blessed.

Isaiah 61:10-62:5

61:10 I will greatly rejoice in the Lord,
and my soul shall exult in my God;
for he has clothed me in the garments of salvation,
and wrapped me in the robe of saving justice,
like a bridegroom adorned with a crown,
and like a bride bedecked with her jewels.

11 For as the earth brings forth its growth,
and a garden makes what is sown in it sprout up,
so the Lord God will make righteousness and praise
sprout up in the sight of all the nations.

62:1 For Zion's sake I will not keep silent,
for Jerusalem's sake I will not keep still,
until her vindication shines forth like the dawn,
and her salvation like a flaming torch.

2 Nations shall behold your vindication,
and every king your glory;
and you shall be called by a new name
which the mouth of the Lord shall declare.

3 You shall be a crown of beauty
in the hand of the Lord,
and in the hand of your God a royal diadem.

4 No more shall you be called "Forsaken,”
nor your land be called "Desolate.”
But you shall be called "My Delight is in her,”
and your land "Espoused."
For the Lord delights in you,
and your land shall be espoused.

5 For as a young man marries a virgin
your Builder shall marry you;
and as a bridegroom rejoices in his bride,
so will your God rejoice in you.

Isaiah 62:4-7

4 No more shall you be called "Forsaken,"
nor your land be called "Desolate."
But you shall be called "My Delight is in her,”
and your land "Espoused."
For the Lord delights in you,
and your land shall be espoused.

5 For as a young man marries a virgin
your Builder shall marry you;
and as a bridegroom rejoices in his bride,
so will your God rejoice in you.

6 Upon your walls, O Jerusalem,
I have stationed watchmen;
neither by day nor by night
shall they be silent.

You who are to remind the Lord,
you shall take no rest.
7 And give no rest to him
until he establishes Jerusalem
making her renowned upon the earth.

Isaiah 63:1-5

1 Who is this that comes from Edom,
clothed in crimson garments from Bozrah,
he who is majestic in attire,
marching in the greatness of his strength?

"It is I, announcing vindication,
who am mighty to save."
2 Why is your clothing so red,
your garments like one who treads the winepress?

3 "I have trodden the winepress all alone;
among the peoples, no one was with me.
I trod them down in my anger,
trampled them in my wrath;
upon my garments is sprinkled their blood,
and all my clothing was stained.

4 For in my heart was a day of vengeance,
but my year of redemption has arrived.
5 I looked, but there was no one to help;
I was appalled, but there was no one with relief.
So my own arm brought about my salvation,
and my own wrath upheld me."

Isaiah 66:10-14a

10 Rejoice with Jerusalem, exult in her,
all you who love her.
Rejoice with her in joy,
all who were mourning over her,

11 So that you may nurse and be satisfied
from her consoling breast,
so that you may drink deeply and delight
in the abundance of her glory.

12 For thus says the Lord: "Behold, I will extend to her
peace like a river, and the glory of the nations
like a stream in full flood.
You will be suckled, carried on the hip,
and gently bounced on her knees.

13 As a mother comforts her son,
so I will comfort you,
and in Jerusalem you shall find comfort.

14 You shall see and your heart shall rejoice;
your limbs shall flourish like grass."

Jeremiah 7:2-7

2 Hear the word of the Lord,
all you people of Judah,
you that enter these gates to worship the Lord.

3 Thus says the Lord of hosts,
the God of Israel:
Amend your ways and your deeds,
and let me dwell with you in this place.

4 Do not trust in these deceptive words:
"This is the temple of the Lord,
the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord.”

5 For if you truly amend your ways and your deeds
if you truly act justly one with another,
6 if you do not oppress the foreigner,
the orphan, and the widow,

Or shed innocent blood in this place,
and if you do not go after other gods
to your own demise,

7 Then I will dwell with you in this place,
in the land that I gave of old
to your ancestors forever and ever.

Jeremiah 14:17-21

17 Let my eyes overflow with tears,
night and day, may they not cease,
for the virgin daughter of my people
is afflicted with a great affliction,
a most grievous wound.

18 If I go out to the field,
behold, those slain by the sword.
And if I enter the city,
behold, diseases from famine.
Both the prophet and the priest
have traversed the land without knowledge.

19 Have you rejected Judah completely?
Does your soul detest Zion?
Why have you struck us down,
with no hope of our healing?
We wait for peace, but find no good;
for a time of healing, but see, terror.

20 We acknowledge our wickedness, O Lord,
the iniquity of our ancestors,
for we have sinned against you.

21 Do not spurn us, for the sake of your name,
nor dishonor your glorious throne.
Remember! Break not your covenant with us.

Jeremiah 17:7-8

7 Blessed the man who trusts in the Lord,
whose trust is the Lord.

8 He is like a tree planted beside the water,
sending out its roots to the stream.

He shall not fear when heat comes,
and his leaves shall stay green;
in the year of drought not fearful,
for he does not cease to bear fruit.

Jeremiah 31:10-14

10 Hear the word of the Lord, O nations;
declare it to the distant isles and say,
"He who scattered Israel will gather him
and guard him as a shepherd his flock."
11 For the Lord has ransomed Jacob,
redeemed him from a hand too strong for him.

12 They shall come and sing praise on the heights of Zion,
come streaming to the bounty of the Lord —
to the grain and the wine and the oil,
to the yearlings of the flock and the herd.
Their soul shall be like a watered garden,
and they shall languish no more.

Then the maiden shall rejoice in a dance,
the young men and old together.
"I will change their mourning into joy;
I will console them, giving gladness for sorrow.
14 I will fill with rich fare the soul of my priests,
and my people shall be filled with my bounty."

Lamentations 5:1-7,15-17,19-21

1 Remember, O Lord, what has befallen us;
behold, and see our disgrace!

2 Our heritage has passed to foreigners,
our homes to strangers.

3 We have become orphans, fatherless,
our mothers are like widows.

4 The water we drink we must buy,
obtain kindling at a price.

5 On our necks is the yoke of our captors;
we are weary, we are given no rest.
6 We held out a hand to Egypt,
to Assyria for our fill of bread.

7 Our parents who sinned are no more,
yet we bear their guilt.

15 Gone is the joy of our hearts;
our dancing has turned to mourning:

16 The crown has fallen from our head;
woe to us who have sinned.

17 Our heart is sick because of this;
so too, our eyes are dimmed.

19 You, O Lord, are enthroned forever;
your throne endures from age to age.

20 Why have you forgotten us forever,
forsaken us for length of days.

21 Turn us back, O Lord, to yourself
that we may be restored:
give us back the days of old.

Ezekiel 36:24-28

24 I will take you from the nations,
and gather you from all the lands,
and bring you onto your own soil.

25 Then I will sprinkle clean water on you;
you shall be cleansed of all your impurity
and of all your idols I will cleanse you.

26 And I will give you a new heart,
and a new spirit I will place within you.
I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh,
and I will give you a heart of flesh.

27 I will place my Spirit within you
and make you walk according to my statutes;
and my judgments you shall keep and observe.

28 Then you shall dwell in the land I gave your ancestors,
and you shall be my people, and I will be your God.

Daniel 3:26-27, 29, 34-41

26 Blessed are you, O Lord, God of our ancestors,
worthy of praise, and glorious forever is your name.
27 For you are just in all you have done for us.

29 Indeed, we have sinned and transgressed
by departing from you;
we have failed in everything.

34 For the sake of your name, do not abandon us forever,
nor annul your covenant;
35 do not withdraw your mercy from us,
for the sake of Abraham your beloved,
Isaac your servant, and Israel your holy one,
36 to whom you promised to multiply their offspring
as the stars of heaven and the sand on the seashore.

37 For we are reduced beyond any other nation,
and in all the world we are humbled this day,
O Lord, on account of our sins.

38 And in our day there is no prince, or prophet, or leader,
no holocaust, sacrifice, oblation, or incense,
no place to offer first fruits before you and find mercy.

39 But with contrite soul and humble spirit
may we be accepted,
as though with holocausts of rams and bulls,
or tens of thousands of fattened lambs.

40 So may our sacrifice be in your presence today,
as we follow you wholeheartedly;
for those who trust in you will not be put to shame.
41 And now we follow you with all our heart;
we fear you and we seek your face.

Daniel 3:52-57

52 Blessed are you, O Lord, the God of our ancestors,
to be praised and highly exalted forever.

Blessed is your glorious and holy name,
to be highly praised and exalted forever.

53 Blessed are you in the temple of your holy glory,
to be highly praised and glorified forever.

54 Blessed are you on the throne of your kingdom,
to be praised and highly exalted forever.

55 Blessed are you who look into the depths,
seated upon the cherubim,
to be praised and highly exalted forever.

56 Blessed are you in the firmament of heaven,
worthy of praise and highly exalted forever.

57 Bless the Lord, all you works of the Lord,
praise and highly exalt him forever.

Daniel 3:57-88, 56

57 Bless the Lord, all you works of the Lord,
praise and highly exalt him forever.

58 Heavens, bless the Lord,
59 angels of the Lord, bless the Lord.
60 All waters above the heavens, bless the Lord,
61 all powers, bless the Lord.

62 Sun and moon, bless the Lord,
63 stars of heaven, bless the Lord.
64 Every shower and dew, bless the Lord,
65 all winds, bless the Lord.

66 Fire and heat, bless the Lord,
67 cold and heat, bless the Lord.
68 Dew and rain, bless the Lord,
69 frost and cold, bless the Lord.

70 Ice and snows, bless the Lord,
71 nights and days, bless the Lord.
72 Light and darkness, bless the Lord,
73 lightnings and clouds, bless the Lord.

74 Let the earth bless the Lord,
praise and highly exalt him forever.

75 Mountains and hills, bless the Lord,
76 all that grows on the earth, bless the Lord.
77 Seas and rivers; bless the Lord,
78 springs of water, bless the Lord.

79 Sea beasts and all that move in the water, bless the Lord,
80 all birds of heaven, bless the Lord.
81 All wild beasts and cattle, bless the Lord,
82 all you people, bless the Lord.

83 O Israel, bless the Lord,
praise and highly exalt him forever.

84 Priests of the Lord, bless the Lord,
85 servants of the Lord, bless the Lord.
86 Spirits and souls of the just, bless the Lord,
87 holy and humble of heart, bless the Lord.
88 Hananiah, Azariah, Mishael, bless the Lord,
praise and highly exalt him forever.

Let us bless the Father, and the Son, with the Holy Spirit.
Let us praise and highly exalt him forever.
56 Blessed are you in the firmament of heaven,
worthy of praise and highly exalted forever.

Hosea 6:1-6

1 Come, let us return to the Lord:
for he himself has tom asunder,
but he will heal us.
He has struck us down,
but he will bind up our wounds.

2 He will restore us to life after two days;
and on the third day he will raise us up
that we may live in his presence.

3 Let us know, let us strive to know the Lord;
as certain as the dawn is his coming.
And he will come to us like rain,
like the spring rain which renews the earth.

4 What can I do for you, O Ephraim?
What can I do for you, O Judah?
Your faithful love is like a morning cloud,
like the dew which so early is gone.

5 That is why I struck them down through the prophets,
and slew them by the words of my mouth,
for my judgment shall go forth like the light.

6 Behold, I desire mercy and not sacrifice,
and knowledge of God, more than whole burnt offerings.

Jonah 2:3-5, 8

3 I cried out to the Lord in my distress,
and he answered me.
From the belly of Sheol I called,
and you heeded my voice.

4 You cast me out into the deep,
into the heart of the seas.
The waters of the flood surrounded me,
all your waves and billows swept over me.

5 Then I said, "I am driven from your sight;
shall I ever behold your holy temple?"

8 When my soul grew faint within me,
I called to mind the Lord.
My prayer came before you in your holy temple.

Habakkuk 3:2-4,13a, 15-19

2 O Lord, I have heard of your fame;
I am in awe, O Lord, of your work.
In the midst of the years, renew it.
In the midst of the years, make it known;
in your anger, remember compassion.

3 God is coming from Teman,
the Holy One from Mount Paran.
His glory covers the heavens;
and the earth is full of his praise.

4 His splendor is as the light:
rays come forth from his hand;
and there lies hidden his power.

13 You have come forth to save your people,
to save the one you have anointed.
15 You tread the sea with your steeds,
churning up the mighty waters.

16 I hear and quake to my inner depths;
my lips quiver at the sound.
Decay invades my bones;
and my steps beneath me tremble.
I await the day of distress,
for the people who come to attack us.

17 Though the fig tree fails to blossom,
or the vine to yield its fruit;
though the crop of the olive fails,
and the fields produce no grain;
though the flock is removed from the fold,
and there are no cattle in the stalls;

18 Yet will I rejoice in the Lord,
and rejoice in the God of my salvation.
19 The Lord, my Lord, is my strength;
he makes my feet like those of the deer,
and makes me tread upon the heights.

Zephaniah 3:8-13

8 The Lord says: O wait for me,
for the day when I arise as accuser,
for my decision is to gather the nations,
to assemble the kingdoms,

To pour out on them my fury,
all of my blazing anger.
For in the fire of my jealous wrath
the whole of the earth will be consumed.

9 Yes, then I will change the speech of peoples
and it will be purified,
that all may call upon the name of the Lord
and serve him together, shoulder to shoulder.

10 From beyond the Ethiopian rivers,
my worshippers, the daughter of my exiles:
they shall bring my offering.

11 On that day, you shall not be put to shame
for all your rebellious deeds against me;
for then I will remove from your midst
your proud ones who exult;
and you shall no longer be haughty
on my holy mountain.

12 But I will leave in your midst
a people humble and lowly;
they will seek refuge in the name of the Lord,
13 the remnant of Israel.

They shall do nothing wrong
and speak no falsehood,
nor shall there be a deceitful tongue
found in their mouths.
They shall pasture and lie down
with none to make them fearful.

NEW TESTAMENT
CANTICLES

Luke 1:46-55
Canticle of Mary (Magnificat)
46 My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
47 and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior,
48 for he has looked upon his handmaid in her lowliness;
for behold, from this day forward,
all generations will call me blessed.

49 For the Almighty has done great things for me,
and holy is his name.
50 His mercy is from age to age
for those who fear him.

51 He has made known the strength of his arm,
and has scattered the proud in their conceit of heart.
52 He has cast down the mighty from their thrones
and has exalted those who are lowly.
53 He has filled the hungry with good things,
and has sent the rich away empty.

54 He has helped his servant Israel,
mindful of his mercy,
55 even as he promised to our fathers,
to Abraham and his descendants forever.

Luke 1:68-79

Canticle of Zechariah (Benedictus)

68 Blessed be the Lord God of Israel:
for he has visited his people and redeemed them;
69 he has raised up for us a horn of salvation
in the House of David his servant,
70 as he spoke through the mouth of his holy ones,
his prophets from ages past:

71 To grant salvation from our foes,
and from the hand of all who hate us,
72 showing mercy to our fathers,
remembering his holy covenant,
73 the oath he swore to Abraham our father;

74 To grant that, freed from the hand of our foes,
75 we may serve him without fear
in holiness and righteousness
all the days of our life.

76 And you, little child, will be called
the Prophet of the Most High,
for you will go before the Lord
to make ready his ways:
77 to grant knowledge of salvation to his people
by the forgiveness of their sins;

78 Through the tender mercy of our God,
the Dawn from on high will visit us,
79 to shine on those who sit in darkness,
and those in the shadow of death;
to guide our feet into the way of peace.

Luke 2:29-32

Canticle of Simeon (Nunc dimittis)

29 Now you dismiss your servant in peace,
according to your word, O Master;

30 For my eyes have seen your salvation,
31 which you prepared in the sight of all the peoples:

32 A light for revelation to the nations,
and the glory of your people Israel.

Ephesians 1:3-10

3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
who has blessed us in Christ
with every spiritual blessing in the heavens;

4 Just as he has chosen us in him
before the foundation of the world
to be holy and blameless before him in love.

5 He destined us for adoption
to himself through Jesus Christ,
in accord with the good pleasure of his will,
6 to the praise of his glorious grace,
with which he favored us in the Beloved.

7 In him we have redemption through his blood,
the forgiveness of transgressions,
in accord with the riches of his grace
8 lavished on us in all wisdom and insight.

9 He has made known to us the mystery of his will
in accord with his good pleasure,
which he set forth in Christ as a plan,
10 a plan for the fullness of times,
to recapitulate all things in him,
things in heaven, and things on earth.

Philippians 2:6-11

6 Although he was in the form of God,
Christ Jesus did not regard equality with God
something to be grasped.

7 Rather he emptied himself,
taking on the form of a slave
being born in human likeness;

And found to be in human form,
8 he humbled himself,
becoming obedient unto death,
death upon a cross.

9 And for this, God highly exalted him,
and bestowed upon him the name
that is above every other name.

10 So that at the name, of Jesus
every knee shall bend
in the heavens, on the earth, and under the earth,

11 And every tongue confess
that Jesus Christ is Lord
to the glory of God the Father.

Cf. Colossians 1:12-20

12 Let us give thanks to the Father who has made us worthy
to share the heritage of the holy ones in light.

13 He delivered us from the power of darkness
and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son,
14 in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.

15 He is the image of the invisible God,
the firstborn of all creation,
16 for in him all things in heaven and on earth were created,
things visible and invisible,
whether thrones or dominions, principalities or powers.

All were created through him and for him,
17 and he exists before all things,
and in him all things hold together.

18 He is the head of the body, the Church,
the beginning, the firstborn from the dead
19 that he may have primacy in all things.

For in him all the fullness was pleased to dwell,
20 and through him, to reconcile all things to himself,
both those on the earth, and those in the heavens,
making peace through the blood of his cross.

1 Timothy 3:16

R. O praise the Lord, all you nations.

16 He was manifested in the flesh,
vindicated in the Spirit.

R. O praise the Lord, all you nations.

He was seen by angels,
proclaimed among the Gentiles.

R. O praise the Lord, all you nations.

He was believed in throughout the world,
taken up in glory.

R. O praise the Lord, all you nations.

1 Peter 2:21-24

21 Christ also suffered for you,
leaving you an example
that you should follow in his footsteps.

22 No sin did he commit;
no guile was found on his lips.
23 When he was insulted,
he returned no insult;

When he was made to suffer,
he made no threats;
instead he handed himself over
to the One who judges justly.

24 He himself bore our sins
in his own body on the tree
so that we might die to sin
and live for righteousness.
By his wounds you have been healed.

Revelation 4:11; 5:9b-10,12b

4:11 Worthy are you, O Lord, our God
to receive glory and honor and power,
for you have created all things
and by your will they came to be and were created.

5:9b Worthy are you, O Lord, to receive the scroll
and to break open its seals,
for you were slain
and with your blood you have ransomed for God
those from every tribe and tongue,
and every people and nation:

10 And made them a kingdom and priests for our God,
and they shall reign on the earth.
12b Worthy is the Lamb that was slain
to receive power and riches and wisdom,
strength and honor, and glory and blessing.

Revelation 11:17-18; 12:10b-12a

11:17 We give you thanks, O Lord, Almighty God,
you who are and who were.
For you have assumed your great power
and you have begun your reign.

18 The nations raged, but your wrath has come,
and the time for the dead to be judged,
and to reward your servants the prophets
and the holy ones and those who fear your name,
the small and the great alike.

12:10 Now have come the salvation
and the power and the kingdom of our God,
and the authority of his Anointed One,
for the accuser of our brethren is cast down
who accused them before our God day and night.

11 They conquered him by the blood of the Lamb,
and by the word of their witness;
love for their life did not deter them from death.
12 Therefore, rejoice, O heavens,
and you who dwell therein.

Revelation 15:3-4

3 Great and wondrous are your works,
O Lord, Almighty God!
Just and true are your ways,
O King of the nations!

4 Who would not fear, O Lord,
and glorify your name?

For you alone are the Holy One,
for all nations will come,
and they will worship before you,
for your righteous deeds have been revealed.

Cf. Revelation 19:1-2, 5-7

Alleluia!
1 Salvation and glory and power to our God, Alleluia!
2 for his judgments are true and just. Alleluia (alleluia).

Alleluia!
5 Sing praise to our God, all you his servants, Alleluia!
you who fear him, small and great. Alleluia (alleluia).

Alleluia!
6 For the Lord, our God the Almighty reigns: Alleluia!
7 Let us rejoice and exult, and give him the glory. Alleluia (alleluia).

Alleluia!
The marriage feast of the Lamb has come, Alleluia!
and his bride has prepared herself.  Alleluia (alleluia).
