JUNE 24
BIRTH OF SAINT JOHN THE BAPTIST
Solemnity
From the common of Holy Men p.     except:

O God, who raised up Saint John the Baptist
to make ready a nation fit for Christ the Lord,
give your people, we pray,
the grace of spiritual joys
and direct the hearts of all the faithful
into the way of salvation and peace.
Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son,
who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.


HYMN
God called great prophets to foretell
The coming of his Son;
The greatest, called before his birth,
Was John, the chosen one.
John searched in solitude for Christ
And knew him when he came.
He showed the world the Lamb of God
And hailed him in our name.
That lonely voice cried out the truth,
Derided and denied.
As witness to the law of God
His mighty martyr died.
We praise you, Trinity in One,
The light of unknown ways,
The hope of all who search for you,
Whose love fills all our days.
FIRST VESPERS
READING Acts 13:23-25 Of David’s posterity God has brought to Israel a
Savior, Jesus, as he promised. Before his coming John had preached
a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel. And as John was
finishing his course, he said, “What do you suppose that I am? I am
not he. No, but after me one is coming, the sandals of whose feet I
am not worthy to untie.”
MAGNIFICAT Zechariah entered the temple of the Lord, and the
angel Gabriel appeared to him, standing on the right of the altar of
incense.

LAUDS
INVITATORY :
Come, let us worship the Lord, the lamb of God, proclaimed by John.
READING Mal 4: 5-6 Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before
the great and terrible day of the Lord comes. And he will turn the
hearts of fathers to their children and the hearts of children to their
fathers, lest I come and smite the land with a curse.
BENEDICTUS The mouth of Zechariah was opened, and he spoke this
prophecy: Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel.


SEXT
READING Is 49:1 Listen to me, O coastlands, and hearken, you peoples
from afar. The Lord called me from the womb, from the body of
my mother he named my name.
The Lord called me from birth.
	From my mother’s womb he named me.

VESPERS
READING Heb 12:1-2 Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a
cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and sin which
clings so closely, and let us run with perseverance the race that is set
before us, looking to Jesus the pioneer and perfecter of our faith,
who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising
the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.
MAGNIFICAT This child, born to us, is greater than any prophet; the
Savior said of him: There is no man born of women greater than
John the Baptist.

Vigil Prayer
Grant, we pray, almighty God,
that your family may walk in the way of salvation
and, attentive to what Saint John the Precursor urged,
may come safely to the One he foretold,
our Lord Jesus Christ.
Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.


