SEPTEMBER 15
Our Lady of Sorrows
Memorial

Prayer
O God, who willed
that, when your Son was lifted high on the Cross,
his Mother should stand close by and share his suffering,
grant that your Church,
participating with the Virgin Mary in the Passion of Christ,
may merit a share in his Resurrection.
Who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.

From the common of the Blessed Virgin Mary p. 605 except:
HYMN
Stabat Mater dolorosa,
Juxta crucem lacrimosa,
Dum pendebat Filius
Cujus animam gementem,
Contristatam et dolentem,
Pertransivit gladius.
O quam tristis et affl icta,
Fuit illa benedicta
Mater Unigeniti!
Quae maerebat et dolebat,
Pia Mater dum videbat
Nati poenas inclyti.
Quis est homo qui non fl eret,
Matrem Christi si videret
In tanto supplicio? Quis non posset contristari,
Christi Matrem contemplari,
Dolentem cum Filio?
Pro peccatis suae gentis,
Vidit Jesum in tormentis,
Et fl agellis subditum.
Vidit suum dulcem natum
Moriendo desolatum
Dum emisit spiritum.
Eia Mater, fons amoris,
Me sentire vim doloris,
Fac ut tecum lugeam.
Fac me tecum pie fl ere,
Crucifi xo condolere,
Donec ego vixero.
Juxta Crucem tecum stare,
Et me tibi sociare
In planctu desidero.
LAUDS
INVITATORY
Let us adore Christ, the Savior of the world,
who called his mother to share in his passion.
PSALMODY
OT 37
READING Is 54:7-8 For a brief moment I forsook you, but with great
compassion I will gather you. In overfl owing wrath for a moment
I hid my face from you, but with everlasting love I will have
compassion on you, says the Lord, your Redeemer.
BENEDICTUS Rejoice, O sorrowful Mother; after your great suff erings,
you shine forth as Queen, enthroned beside your Son.
PRAYER Father, as your Son was raised on the cross, his mother Mary
stood by him, sharing his suff erings. May your Church be united
with Christ in his suff ering and death and so come to share in his
rising to new life, where he lives and reigns with…
SEXT
READING Lam 1:12-13 Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by? Look
and see if there is any sorrow like my sorrow which was brought
upon me, which the Lord infl icted on the day of his fi erce anger.
From on high he sent fi re; into my bones he made it descend; he
spread a net for my feet; he turned me back; he has left me stunned,
faint all the day long.
Blessed are those who hear the word of God.
- And cherish it in their hearts.
VESPERS
READING Col 1:24-25 I rejoice in my suff erings for your sake, and in
my fl esh I complete what is lacking in Christ’s affl ictions for the
sake of his body, that is, the church, of which I became a minister
according to the divine offi ce which was given to me for you, to
make the word of God fully known.
MAGNIFICAT When Jesus saw his mother standing beside the cross
with the disciple whom he loved, he said to her: Woman, behold
your son. Th en he said to the disciple: Behold your mother.
