SEPTEMBER 29
SAINTS MICHAEL, GABRIEL AND RAPHAEL,
ARCHANGELS
Feast

Collect
O God, who dispose in marvelous order
ministries both angelic and human,
graciously grant
that our life on earth may be defended
by those who watch over us
as they minister perpetually to you in heaven.
Through our Lord Jesus Christ, your Son,
who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
one God, for ever and ever.

HYMN
Angels of the Lord, festive assembly,
In you the Most High has placed his beauty,
Th e Spirit of seven gifts keeps you ever watchful,
Lamps of Fire, messengers of light.
To keep you in His presence, God created you;
You came down from heaven to Jacob as he slept.
In the fullness of time, you were shown the mystery
Of the humbling of the Son who assumed our fl esh.
Companions of the Bridegroom, you served Jesus in the desert;
Near the tomb you proclaimed joy to the holy women.
Th e return of the lost sheep fi lls you with happiness,
You watch over the least of the faithful.
You present to God the prayers of the Saints,
Your choirs mingle with the assemblies of believers.
When the Son of Man returns in His Glory,
You will be with him, myriads upon myriads.
Glory be to the Father whom the Angels contemplate,
Th anks be to the Son whom the Archangels adore
Praise be to the Holy Spirit of whom the Celestial Powers sing,
Blessed be the God thrice Holy! Amen.
VIGILS
PSALMODY
ps 102 ant Chr
LAUDS
INVITATORY:
Come, let us worship the Lord in the company of his angels.
PSALMODY : ps 96 ant Lent - OT 41 - ps 147 ant E - ps 148 ant Adv
READING Gen 28:12-13 Jacob dreamed that there was a ladder set up on
the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven; and behold, the angels
of God were ascending and descending on it! And behold, the Lord
stood above it and said, “I am the Lord, the God of Abraham your
father and the God of Isaac.”
BENEDICTUS Truly I say to you: You will see the heavens open, and the
angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man.
PRAYER God our Father, in a wonderful way you guide the work of
angels and men. May those who serve you constantly in heaven keep
our lives safe from all harm on earth. Grant this…
SEXT
PSALMODY of the weekday
READING Dan 12:1 At that time shall arise Michael, the great prince
who has charge of your people. And there shall be a time of trouble,
such as never has been since there was a nation till that time; but at that time your people shall be delivered, every one whose name
shall be found written in the book.
Th e Lord will send forth his angels.
- With trumpet blasts and loud cries, they will summon the elect from
the ends of the earth.
VESPERS
PSALMODY
ps 90 ant OT - ps 137 ant OT - ps 8 ant Lent - NT 6
READING Rev 1:4-5 Grace to you and peace from him who is and who
was and who is to come, and from the seven spirits who are before
his throne, and from Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the fi rstborn
of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth. To him who loves
us and has freed us from our sins by his blood.
MAGNIFICAT Th e angel Gabriel spoke to Mary and said: You will
conceive and bear a son, and you shall name him Jesus.
